# Star Schema version of Fabric Power BI Direct Lake Connector using the Fabric Data Warehouse with 220M+ Rows


## Scenario
Another solution in this Git repo enabled the ingestion of 220+ million rows of data from CMS into the Fabric Lakehouse using Spark Notebooks. The data was transformed into a normalized table in the Lakehouse, and a Power BI dataset in Direct Lake mode was built on top of it. This solution takes you a step further by transforming the normalized table of data into a star schema design that is optimized for complicated analytic queries and fast query performance. The normalized table of CMS data is designed as dimensions and a fact table using the Fabric Warehouse, and then a Fabric Pipeline (Azure Data Factory in Fabric) is used to orchestrate writing the dimensions and fact table to a Fabric Lakehouse. Instructions are then provided for creating a new Power BI dataset in Direct Lake mode that uses the star schema design in the Fabric Lakehouse.

https://github.com/isinghrana/fabric-samples-healthcare/tree/main/analytics-bi-directlake 
The Fabric Direct Lake connector is a new technology for querying delta parquet files from Power BI without data caching or an intermediary relational database. Power BI datasets have been modernized so that the semantic layer containing metadata and query logic can directly query the Fabric Data Lake. Data for the demo is 220M+ rows of real healthcare data from the open data database titled **Medicare Part D Prescribers - by Provider and Drug**. Link here: https://data.cms.gov/provider-summary-by-type-of-service/medicare-part-d-prescribers/medicare-part-d-prescribers-by-provider-and-drug 

## Scope
This demo is intended to provide experience with light data engineering tasks (data type conversions, appending columns, etc.) using Fabric Spark to build out Delta Parquet tables and then using the Direct Lake connector in Power BI to query large volumes of real data. The demo is not intended to represent the best possible arhitecture for the data model, or the best method to architect the delta parquet portion of the design. The demo will be updated in future interations to include a dimensional model, but the first version will be a simple flattened delta parquet table that can be queried directly from Power BI. 
